# ContentMine Advisory Board Q4 2014 Meeting
## Wednesday 17 December, 15:00 UTC
<img src="https://github.com/ContentMine/ebi_workshop_20141006/raw/master/setup/CM_logo.png" width="200px"/>
## Attending: 
* Laura James
* Puneet Kishor
* Ross Mounce
* Joe McArthur
* Karien Bezuidenhout
* Peter Murray-Rust
* Jenny Molloy

## Apologies:
* None

## Agenda:

### Introductions (10 min)

All advisors and project staff introduced themselves and their role.

### Project background and Q&A (PMR) (15 min)

* Project sponsored by Shuttleworth.
* PMR is fellow, currently funded for 1 year and has renewed funding for next year till 2016-12-29
* Liberate facts from literature on massive scale
* Current strategy - build communities of practice: plants, species and evolution, chemistry, astrophysics
* Group of technical people who are also scientists
* System nearly ready for general release, plan to demo at FORCE2015 workshop in Jan
* Read 1000+ papers a day, extract facts and release openly on web, strong links to Wikimedia etc to encourage reuse.
* Looking to make sure facts are used and useful for scientific communities
* Model is reaching imagination of many people and want to reach out to early career researchers
* Sharing tech and community with OA button
* Any Qs?
  * HJ: Content all OA?
    * Yes for now to develop technology and avoid problem of scale for now. No need to use closed access currently.
    * Some areas not well covered by OA e.g. chemistry and materials.
  * JW: Need to be very careful with legality (both copyright/legal and contractual terms)
    * Need to make informed choice - enabling other people to grab content illegally could be a software distribution issue.
    * Very grey area. Charles up to speed with UK law
    * Dificult to tell if use of software will be viewed as a hostile act.


## Discussion on governance/role of the advisory board (10 min)
* Right level of governance for now
* ACTION: JM to add advice on governance explicitly to the advisory board role description
* ACTION: JM to add advice on legal issues explicitly to the advisory board role description
* Grey areas argue for staying as project rather than legal entity
* If central project stops, likely to spawn various semi-autonomous projects that would continue regardless.
quarterly advisory board meetings


## Discussion on potential strategies for growth (15 min)
* OpenStreetMap model - local hackathons, meetings et around central online platform
* Software Carpentry model - training to grow community, viral training of trainers
* Grant application to benign/benevolent/philanthropic funders
* One application in for H2020 grant with LIBER, Open Knowledge, British Library and others
* Subproject of large organisation is a possibility
* Resisting venture capital/buy-out strategy as per startups e.g. Mendeley
* Possible through mixture of technology/training to generate income - aware this is likely to be difficult! 
* PK: Charging a nominal amount for attending the workshop would be great, but not possible in most instances, particularly those in the global south. 
  * JM: We can look for organisational funding for these sort of workshops. Software Carpentry charge $1500 + expenses.

JMcA: 
* Multiple strategies - different models of funding for different parts of the organisation
* Right now, at the Button we're trying to fund big leaps in features with the one-off grants, and funding overheads with sponsorship and a potential set of services for libraries. 
* All that combined with keeping overheads low is our current best shout. 

LJ:
* Good to keep options open at early stage.
* +1 on not VC sell out for this work. 
* Diversity of funds whilst exploring where value is and for whom is good (longer term we will need to beware of ending up with too many small revenue streams which are admin horror!).  
* Get community manager who (1) can conect with lots of different communities not just one niche, and (2) can spot folks/groups who see value in content mining, so that they can feed through into potential value/revenue sources. 
* Lots of business model planning/brainstorming tools (business model canvas and others to help explore novel models too). 
  * PMR: +1 Likely to look at indirect revenue models in some way so these business model tools will be useful. 

CO:
* Jisc would be a possibility for funding services. 
  * Jisc also runs a student innovation program, which you could tap into potentially, it's a small amount of money but a great route into Jisc. 

KB:
* lots of models through other Shuttleworth Fellows who have developed their projects.

## Growth of paid staff roles:
* No full time except PMR. 
* Most others full time in academia or part time in other jobs. 
  * LJ: Peter is amazingly dedicated and doing an incredible amount of work (as are other early career helpers !)
* Some technology development not paid for by project but through academic grants e.g. in chemistry
* Ross has phylogenetics postdoctoral grant funded by BBSRC
* Richard Smith-Unna is a PhD student and volunteer software developer
* Jenny is finishing thesis, currently at Open Knowledge until end of 2014 funded by BBSRC but also working ~1 day a week with ContentMine which will continue in 2015.
* Steph Unna is a PhD student in plant systems biology and works on workshop materials
* Mark MacGillivray and cottagelabs work on technology

## Suggestions for potential collaborations & funding (5 min)
* PK: suggest collaboration with DeepDive folks at Stanford (http://deepdive.stanford.edu) who are interested in the use of their software for teaching ER extraction

## AoB and setting next meeting date (5 min)
* Suggest monthly meetings if possible and quarterly meetings where we ensure everyone can join the same call.
  * PK: my suggestion, have monthiy meetings because not everyone will be able to join all the meetings. If you have one only once every quarter, it is likely someone can miss one and be absent for a long time. 
* ACTION: JM to distribute meeting calendar and doodle for Q1 2015 call.

No other business - meeting closed.
